# Classification-of-Lung-cancer-images-using-machine-learning
In Today’s world there are many diseases but among them there is lung cancer which is a life-threatening disease and is more dangerous than other types of cancer. Uncontrollable cell development in the lung tissue is the root cause of lung cancer. Early lung cancer identification is crucial for accurate diagnosis and therapy accessibility. Detection of lung cancer at is early stage is very difficult as lung cancer does not have any major symptoms at an early stage. However, early detection of lung cancer contributes to maintaining the overall survival rate of people. Consequently, by conducting numerous investigations, several researchers develop diverse approaches for identifying lung cancer. Computer technology has recently been employed to resolve these diagnosis-related issues. a variety of deep learning and machine learning algorithms, certain image processing methods, and predicting. This report will be on finding out the hybrid framework for the detection of lung cancer at an early stage. Firstly the suggested model is pre-processed by Noise removal filtering technique. Then Through the hybrid of wavelet and LBP approach the features were extracted from the already pre-processed images. Then which the help of hybrid feature selection approach the features were extracted and then classified using the SVM and the KNN techniques. The OSVM's regularisation and kernel parameters are adjusted with the IW-BS method, greatly enhancing classifier performance. The suggested method classifies input photos as benign, malignant, or normal. The findings demonstrate that the suggested methodology outperforms existing approaches in terms of accuracy, precision, recall, specificity, F-score, running time, AUC (area under the curve), and ROC (receiver operating characteristics). 
 
